There's other cool things
that Vite gives us.
And one of them is Node has
always let us import JSON and
treat it like JavaScript, right?
You could always in the earliest versions
of Node do Require and then a JSON file
and you would get a JavaScript object you
wouldn't have to do a JSON parse on it.
You would always just get it.
The problem, and it's not actually
a problem of CommonJS read large,
is there ain't no tree
shaking in common JS.
You were getting the whole JSON
file whether you liked it or not.
You can halt everything in CommonJS,
whether you like it or not.
VITE understands that it is likely that
you might wanna have some data in a JSON
file, right?
Other than you could just
export default an object, too.
But you might choose to
pull in just a field.
And so one of the things that VITE
gives you is the ability, and
I have some JSON files in here just for
funzies.
They're totally randomized D&D characters.
I don't play D&D, so if anyone
knows there's anything wrong here.
I'm sorry, email, Dustin,
and we'll fix it.
And it'll be great.
Let's say this is a giant JSON file,
right?
And let's say I only wanted the name,
Well, pulling in the rest of the JSON
file might add a lot to the bundle.
And I don't want that.
And so what I can do is, let's just do
it in index so I can see it with the build,
I like running the build.
This is my new, wasn't the original plan,
but I'm into it.
If we did import, let's do gandorf.
From
./characters/gandorf.
And, I have some ways to render the DOM,
but
I most just wanna show
you in the build tools.
Let's go ahead and
let's see what that looks like in here.
You can see the entire
thing is loaded in there.
If I go into the sources and go to
characters and slide in this entire file.
But you'll notice something really cool
is look what it did as it pulled it in.
export default is the entire file, right?
But it also went through the JSON file and
it made exports for
every single variable on it, right?
And so then what I can do is
actually I could just do name.
And it's only gonna pull in just the name,
which means when we go to build is gonna
tree shake out all those other
properties cuz they're not used, right?
And so
now instead of using the entire JSON file,
I'm only gonna get that one name property.
I don't know if it'll show
me in the sources but
we're about to find out if not,
I'll show you in the build.
Let's go check it out now.
But if we go and we run the build,
I kind of wanna make it its own chunk.
Hold on, let's do this.
Just to really demonstrate like
that fact that we're only gonna get
the part we need.
We'll do import.
And then only pull in the name
And then we'll do npm run build
So we got this little
JavaScript file over here.
It seems pretty big, but
I wonder if I might have that
image in there or somewhere.
Hopefully, I don't embarrass myself,
we'll find out.
I can't find it faster, but it will for
the most part try to pull out
just the part that I need.
Unfortunately, the minified code
is borderline impossible to read.
But, it will tree shake out all the parts
that I don't need, cuz as you can see,
it was turning it into
a regular ES module.
And ES modules have tree shaking
in them when we're not trying to
read minified code where they've turned
that variable into a single letter.
But we will actually be able to shake out
all the things you get a whole bunch of
powerful features.
That again, yes, I want us to get that
a little bit of a Vite-specific thing.
But there are a few patterns where again,
I didn't tweak, okay,
go shake this stuff out.
I basically get, hey,
these are the things you want.
It's going to under the hood, turn all
that stuff into modern JavaScript,
which gets us all of the ability to
have just the parts that we need.